
/// Want somewhere to shove your big ideas that would be great if someone did them one day? \\\
|||										Shove them here!									|||
\\\																							///


ECONOMY
persistent stock market
rebalance so money actually works
after the economy is rebalanced : rework spacebux to be eQUAL to credits

GAME INTERACTIONS
turn pulling into just grabs (mbc : this is something i wanted to do but it will require careful consideration and large revamps because of how important the function of a Pull is (third hand, not a 'real' grab, and messing with other types of clicks if youre on the wrong setting)
more action progress bars for things like wall building (mbc : many non-combat actionbars take way too long. especially repair jobs)
add in multiContext menus for EVERYTHING and remove right click from the game
move ghost options to onscreen buttons (mbc has already written a ghost based abilityholder)
unify ghost respawn options all in one panel (provide more ghost respawns such as botany slaves and golems etc)

MEDICAL
implement more organs, organ subtypes, and more detailed organ manipulation
organ patch

WEAPONS
standardize damage values so we can have some sembalance of balance
continue to implement Disorient/Stamina based stuns where it makes things funner

ADVENTURE ZONES
actually standardize the lore names so we don't have conflicting stuff (unintentionally)
more endings would be cool
finish unfinished zones
Oshan Z3 adventure zone (entire zlevel!!!)
Oshan trench map gen on round start


POWER
a redesign that's less buggy and simpler would be nice
nuclear engine vINF?

JOBS
religion overhaul?
-rituals?
matsci incomplete + should be rebalanced cause i heard some stuff is extremely strong without too much investment

ANTAGONISTS
- Changeling headspider should be player controlled (properly transfer hivemind too!!)
- Rebalance neurotoxin + spit so that neuro is weaker and spit is stronger. Suggestion : Neurotoxin is slower acting but spit acts as a temporary muzzle after it removes headgear. Not meant to be a nerf, just make abilities more fun.
- Hivemind should be able to have some ability or basic attack while in horror form
- Werewolf should have a 3-tiered transformation with more feral sprites. Let them wear clothes at Stage 1 or 2.


VISUALS / GRAPHICS
parallax space (optional)
AI and cyborgs need distinct chat colors/icons
Arm missing indicators are super unclear and leg missing indicators dont exist


SOUNDS
mbc eventually wants to make talking sound effects for people standing in your proximity. it's super hard to nail a good voice sample that sounds good + is not intrusive. Of course, players could turn off voice sfx. the idea is that its an audio-based ping to tell you when someone is speaking on-screen.
Silent space needs murder.

NEW/TRANSFER PLAYER EXPERIENCE
basic game tutorial?


OUT OF GAME EXPERIENCE
redesign character menu
unify end of round printouts and screens
end of round ticket voting in-game should reflect goonhub
keybinding menu
